[Music]
Sirens blad out across Israel today as
the nation stopped to remember the 6
million Jews murdered by the Nazis 2
minutes of silence as Israelis Mark the
annual day of mourning for and
commemoration of the victims of the
Holocaust Israeli leaders also gathered
for the Eternal Flame at yat vashem the
world Holocaust remembrance Center among
them prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
and president ISAC
P now this year's Holocaust Remembrance
Day is being observed in the shadow of
the Hamas terror attack of October 7th
and the subsequent war in Gaza at a
ceremony on Sunday night Netanyahu
denounced what he called a volcano of
anti-Semitism and took aim at Israel's
International critics
80 years ago in the
Holocaust the Jewish people were totally
defenseless against those who sought our
destruction no Nation came to our
Aid today we again confront enemies bent
on our
destruction I say to the leaders of the
world no amount of
pressure no decision by any
International Forum will stop is Israel
from defending
itself as the prime minister of Israel
the one and only Jewish State I pledge
here today from Jerusalem on this
Holocaust Remembrance
Day if Israel is forced to stand
alone Israel will stand
alone Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu there I'm now very pleased to
welcome the Rabbi Abraham Cooper in the
studio he's associate dean of the seimon
visent center Jewish human rights
organization he's also the chairman of
the US Commission on International
religious freedom which gives policy
advice to the US government thank you
for joining us here on this very special
day uh in the studio uh now this is the
first Holocaust remance day since
October uh uh 7 the terror attacks then
when you think back to a year ago and
then look at the situ situation now what
are your thoughts well as far as the
Jewish people are concerned a year ago
uh there tremendous divisions
ideological religious political you know
Jews do like to argue a lot uh October
7th just saw those divisions not only in
Israel but even in the diaspora melt
away because it was understood that
October 7th was something different and
uh in a sense it's his own existential
threat when that happens the Jewish
Family tends to come together on the
other hand
you know the Holocaust was uh if you
will industrial size mass murder
genocide uh and everything was done to
depersonalize the contact between the
murderers and the victim to cover up
what had taken place October 7th in a
sense was the exact opposite looking for
families broadcasting it back home
calling Mom and Dad in gosses saying I
killed 10 Jews with my own hands so
there I think a lot of the
survivors of October 7th have been
looking to the survivors of the
Holocaust for if you will a Lifeline for
guidance like how could you pick up the
pieces after where do we go from here
and so there is I think one other very
important um issue in that is that
denial has become a weapon denial of the
Holocaust by the Iranians and others and
denial of the reality of what happened
on October 7th by Hamas and hamas's
supporters around the world it's almost
unbelievable but if you can deny the
Holocaust you can pretty much deny
anything so we just saw Netanyahu there
speaking in Jerusalem so so you think
he's right to draw parallels with the
Holocaust there uh I think it's simply
unavoidable uh I work for the Simon
visol Center Mr wethal was the famous
Nazi Hunter who worked very hard to not
draw parallels directly between one
genocide and another each on its own
right stands alone but way I would say
is that for the intergeneration of the
Jewish Family if you will there's a a
natural uh need for if you will a
collective hug but in terms of uh that
needs to be led by the survivors who
went through the ultimate inh Humanity
not just for 24 hours but sometimes for
four or five years now you mentioned the
word genocide which has become a really
a political Hot Potato if you will this
particular word um and there are people
who compare the war in Gaza uh uh to a
Geno genocide to to the Holocaust uh has
it become necessary for these days to
explain the
difference well I think uh you're
absolutely right the term genocide is
now applied uh to horrific events that
take place sometimes mass murders not
all of them are genocides it doesn't uh
diminished the level of suffering of
individuals in so far as trying to if
you will to flip the narrative which
Hamas and its supporters work so hard to
do uh it's I think pretty
straightforward uh no one had to suffer
in Gaza all Hamas had to do is lay down
its weapons and that's perhaps not uh
thought about or spoken about very much
but when you're dealing with an enemy
that itself wants to see you kill and
maim as many Poss people as possible uh
it it puts Israelis in in a in a tough
position but at the end of the day
politics Society just came from Israel
uh the people themselves uh and you know
it's a small country what happened there
is the equivalent of probably 10
91s uh there is a GM determination to
see this through people hope it'll
happen quickly because they still have
Hezbollah and ultimately you of the
Ayatollah up there so it's a very tough
and rocky road ahead and the lessons
from the Holocaust of course are not
only about uh death and destruction and
mass murder but about perseverance and
courage and humanity and hope now uh no
matter what happens in in the immediate
future the brutality of the attack on
October 7th uh and also the high price
that gazans are paying right now that
anger and hate on both sides uh is it
ever going to go away I can't speak for
the people in Gaza I know that
unfortunately getting education through
unra uh has sort of kept a lot of that
hatred boiling for quite a while before
uh o October 7th I think from the point
of view of
Israelis um I think their their hatred
is focused on the enemy and I think the
vast majority of Israelis don't see all
Palestinians as quote unquote the enemy
nonetheless the numbers the polling
that's taking place the endorsement of
what took place on October 7th and then
the denial uh which we're hearing more
and more about that it it was all a
concoction made up that's what raises of
course the level of of anger uh uh to
fever pitch among Israel but I I think
that the day after will come and in the
middle e least as fast as these horrific
events take place the day after
sometimes brings some promises of Hope
right now we don't see any on the
horizon but Simon weisenthal himself was
once asked if he believed the Miracles
and he said well I'm not a religious man
uh and I like when I look at the Middle
East I think objectively but in order to
be an optimist in the Middle East you
have to believe in miracles he's right
let's change the subject and look at uh
the uh Spike of anti-Semitism especially
on us campuses um universities we've
seen uh the pro Palestinian protesters
at Colombia other universities across
the US your colleague Jim Burk the CEO
of the Simon Health Center had this to
say I think we have a piece of Graphics
there to go with it anyway I'll just
read it we are witnessing the abject
failure of universities to hold
accountable those who have hijacked
University campuses and failed to
protect your students faculty staff and
other supporters of Israel immediate
action must be taken would you agree
with that sentiment is it only a failure
of the universities I think at the end
of the day when some of those
universities parents are paying 990,000
us a year for tuition it's a contract
people go to university to uh to study
um and yes it is a failure in the part
of administrations and as been reported
here katar has invested over $4 billion
dollar in Elite American universities
over the years and I think also in
watching some of the University
presidents being interrogated on Capitol
Hill they're all reading statements
drafted by lawyers we need less lawyers
we need more leadership you don't have
that leadership you have that kind of
situation where extremists know exactly
what they want to do where they want to
take the canvus to have a pretty open
road in a lot of locations and uh from
the point of view of the Jewish
Community it's a difficult but necessary
wakeup call and uh hopefully cooler
heads will I think also it's very
important is the IRA definition of
anti-semitism I can't tell you how many
University administrators have told me
if we only had a working definition then
we would be able to train our police on
campus and take the necessary action
what's missing right now there's no
moral GPS in most of these Elite
campuses and if and affects not only the
Jew Jewish people in this issue but more
broadly it's just absent from the
curriculum if you will uh speaking about
uh the the moral compass commentators
say that anti-Semitism is moving from
the right where it used where we used to
see it uh to the left in the US and
elsewhere do you think that's happening
I think it has happened uh it doesn't
mean that neo-nazis suddenly are uh to
they're still there but what you're
seeing here is the demonization of the
Jewish State and uh as far as
criticizing Israel uh you won't get
stronger criticism than its own knesset
or among taxi drivers but when you get
into diaspora the conversation suddenly
shifted from where will the borders of a
two-state solution proposed be to no
there needs to be one state and from
River to Sea Palestine etc etc a
dramatic shift uh a kind of wholesale
Embrace of the Hamas
narrative Robbie Abraham Cooper
associate dean of the Simon ween Hall
Center thank you very much for joining
us here on the day on this very special
day